SPEAKER: "Export of name
directive not found."
You may encounter
this error when
you reference a directive
in a template that has not
been defined, not
properly imported,
or when its export name
has not been declared.
Let's take a look at a simple
reproduction and solution.
Then we'll take a
closer look at NgModules
to gain a deeper
understanding of this issue.
We can start debugging
by finding the error
in the browser console or in
the terminal from the Angular
compiler output.
In either case, it will take you
to the template that references
the non-existent directive.
And notice how the IDE is
catching this error in advance.
Once there, rule out a simple
typo as the cause of the error.
A more likely cause
is that the NgModule
that exports that directive
has not been imported yet.
In this example,
we're referencing
ngForm, which is exported
by Angular's FormsModule.
Therefore, we can
address the problem
by going into the app module
and adding the FormsModule
to the imports array.
Save the file, then notice how
the warning and the component
template has disappeared.
That's because
Angular has no way
to know about that
directive until it's
been imported in the NgModule.
If nothing changes, first
try restarting your local dev
server.
If the issue remains,
double check that you're
importing the proper NgModule.
For example, we can
search the directive name
in the official
Angular documentation.
The documentation
for that directive
will tell us exactly
which NgModule to import.
Now, it's also worth noting
that you may run into this error
when you attempt to assign one
of your own custom directives
to a template variable.
Let's take a look at a component
and directive that both live
within the same NgModule.
The directive has a
selector of appForm.
However, if we attempt
to assign that directive
to a template variable,
it gives us a warning
that there is no directive with
"exportAs" set to "appForm."
In order to use a directive
as a template variable,
we need to define a name
in the exportAs option
in the directive decorator.
And once the export
name has been defined,
the error goes away.
The key takeaway
here is that when
using a directive as
a template variable,
it must have an export name
within the directive decorator.
Now that we know how
to debug this error,
let's take a closer look
at NgModules and directives
to understand why it
happens in the first place.
When you create an
NgModule in Angular,
you declare components
and directives
that are to be used
privately within this module.
But in many cases, you have
components and directives
defined here that should be
used outside of this module.
You can make these
classes public
by adding them to
the exports array.
And that's how you share
components and directives
between NgModules.
But keep in mind that when
working with directives,
you also need to
consider how they'll
be consumed in the template.
For example, here
we have a directive
with a class name of NgForm.
If the goal is to use the
directive as a property
or attribute on an element,
we define a selector
as in a CSS selector, like
a class name or attribute.
Then the directive is
instantiated when that selector
is encountered in the template.
However, if the goal
is to use the directive
as a template variable, that
same mechanism doesn't work.
Therefore, we set
an export as name
to make that name
known to Angular,
allowing it to
instantiate the directive
in a template variable.
Let's go ahead and recap.
When you encounter
the "Export of name
directive not found"
error, debug it
by finding the template that
references the directive.
Then determine which NgModule
needs to be imported.
Once the module has
been identified,
it can be imported in
your own local NgModule.
If the issue is not related
to an NgModule import,
verify that the directive
has an exportAs property set
when used in the context
of a template variable.
For additional
examples and details,
reference the official
Angular documentation.